---
layout: post
author: liuxin
title: 2-Basics of two-phase flow modeling   
date: 2017-06-02
category: 多相流
tags: Diffuse Interface
---

## the models developed are relevant only at a given scale 
In industrial applications, the scales of interest are rather large, typically of the order of several meters. Thus, very often, their modeling is based on so-called **averaged models** in which all the physical quantities considered (mass, velocity, energy. . . ) are averaged quantities, either over an averaging volume or over an averaging time interval. At this scale of modeling, the interfaces that separate the bulk phases are not modeled individually. 


However, all the transfers between the bulk phases occur at the interfaces and these transfers therefore have to be modeled through so-called **closure laws**. The determination of these closure laws is an important part of the modeling art of researchers and engineers. One of the ingredients necessary in this art is the knowledge of the transfers that occur at the interfaces. The issue is therefore to model these transfers and therefore to model the interfaces. In most common industrial applications, the finest scale considered is that of the bubbles or drops present in the flow. The typical size of the bubbles or drops present depends on the parameters of the fluids (e.g. surface tension) and of the flow (e.g. velocity). Nevertheless, a typical size can be from tens of microns to millimeters. This range of length scales is therefore the smallest to be considered in modeling interfacial transfers between the bulk phases. The question is then to determine how the interfaces must be modeled at this scale. 


