---
layout: post
author: liuxin
title: parcel  
date: 2018-03-01
category: ansys
---

	
## In Unsteady DPM: 
It is very expensive to track each individual particle in a particle flow system. Instead of tracking each particle, FLUENT tracks Parcel. Parcel contains **particles with same properties including diameter, velocity and position.** The behavior of each parcel is determined by the behavior of the particles inside. Fluent tracks parcels and number of particles in a parcel can be obtained using macro p->number\_in\_parcel. The number of particles in each parcel can be a fractional number.

Streams are defined for injecting the parcels in the computational domain. `N` streams means `N` locations of parcel injection

每个stream代表一个parcel发射的位置。

Stream mass flow rate, and number of particles in a parcel are related as:

Number of particles in a parcel = 
$
\bf
\frac{Stream\ mass\ flow\ rate\ * Injection\ time\ interval}{Mass\ of\ single\ particle}
$

每个parcel里particle的数量 = 一个stream每秒发射的质量 * 一次发射的时间步长 / 一个particle的质量

移项，也就是：一个stream一次发射的质量 = 一个parcel的质量


Number of particle streams: the number of parcels that get injected after each injection time interval.


## In Steady DPM: 
Number of particles in parcel is not valid for steady tracking. Instead there is "strength" which is essentially number particles in parcel / second and is calculated as:

Strength = (Stream mass flow rate)/(Mass of single particle)

strength = 一个stream每秒发射的质量 / 一个particle的质量

## Clarification: 
FLUENT user`s documentation mentions "particles" everywhere, when it should be actually parcels.