---
layout: post
title: "陆小寻学堂——R语言"
date: 2016-09-30
category: cs
duoshuo: true
description: '数学建模的时候就听说了R语言的大名，然而当时没有时间学习，只好用matlab代替了R在统计方面的强大功能。这学期比较闲，所以系统学习了R和matlab，并比较了两者语言的不同之处。'
---

>数学建模的时候就听说了R语言的大名，然而当时没有时间学习，只好用matlab代替了R在统计方面的强大功能。这学期比较闲，所以系统学习了R和matlab，并比较了两者语言的不同之处。(全程英语装逼请不要介意嘻嘻)

# Chapter 1 Basic R
In this chapter, I'm gonna talk about basic R expressions.
We'll start simple, with numbers, strings, and true/false values. 
Then I'll show you how to store those values in variables, and how to pass them to functions.
I'll show you how to get help on functions when you're stuck.
Finally we'll load an R script in from a file.

Let's get started!

## Expressions

Let's try some simple math. Type the below command. 

    > 1 + 1 
    [1] 2

There's your result, `2`.

Type the string `"I love Liu Xin"`. (Don't forget the quotes!)

	> "I love Liu Xin"
	[1] "I love Liu Xin"

Now try multiplying 6 times 7 (`*` is the multiplication operator).

	> 6 * 7
	[1] 42

## Logical Values

Some expressions return a "logical value": `TRUE` or `FALSE`. (Many programming languages refer to these as "boolean" values.) Let's try typing an expression that gives us a logical value:

	> 3 < 4
	[1] TRUE

And another logical value (note that you need a double-equals sign to check whether two values are equal - a single-equals sign won't work):

	> 2 + 2 == 5
	[1] FALSE
	
`T` and `F` are shorthand for `TRUE` and `FALSE`. Try this:


	> T == TRUE
	[1] TRUE

## Variables

As in other programming languages, you can store values into a variable to access it later. Type `x <- 42` to store a value in `x`.

	> x <- 42

`x` can now be used in expressions in place of the original result. Try dividing `x` by `2` (`/` is the division operator).

	> x / 2
	[1] 21

You can re-assign any value to a variable at any time. Try assigning `"Arr, matey!"` to `x`. (Don't forget the quotation marks!)

	> x <- "Hi, Liu Xin!"

You can print the value of a variable at any time just by typing its name in the console. Try printing the current value of `x`.

	> x
	[1] "Hi, Liu Xin!"

Now try assigning the `TRUE` logical value to `x`.

	> x <- TRUE

## Functions

You call a function by typing its name, followed by one or more arguments to that function in parenthesis. Let's try using the `sum` function, to add up a few numbers. Enter:

	> sum(1, 3, 5)
	[1] 9

Some arguments have names. For example, to repeat a value 3 times, you would call the `rep` function and provide its `times` argument:


	> rep("Yo ho!", times = 3)
	[1] "Yo ho!" "Yo ho!" "Yo ho!"

Try calling the `sqrt` function to get the square root of `16`.

	> sqrt(16)
	[1] 4

## Help

`help(functionname)` brings up help for the given function. Try displaying help for the `sum` function:


	> help(sum)
	sum                    package:base                    R Documentation

	Sum of Vector Elements

	Description:

	     'sum' returns the sum of all the values present in its arguments.

	Usage:

	     sum(..., na.rm = FALSE)
	...

(Don't worry about that optional `na.rm` argument, we'll cover that later.)

`example(functionname)` brings up examples of usage for the given function. Try displaying examples for the `min` function:


	> example(min)

	min> require(stats); require(graphics)

	min>  min(5:1, pi) #-> one number
	[1] 1

	min> pmin(5:1, pi) #->  5  numbers
	[1] 3.141593 3.141593 3.000000 2.000000 1.000000

	...

Now try bringing up help for the `rep` function:


	> help(rep)
	rep                    package:base                    R Documentation

	Replicate Elements of Vectors and Lists

	Description:    

	     'rep' replicates the values in 'x'. It is a generic function, and
	     the (internal) default method is described here.
	...

## Files

Typing commands each time you need them only works for short scripts, of course. R commands can also be written in plain text files (with a ".R" extension, by convention) for executing later. You can run them directly from the command line, or from within a running R instance.

We've stored a couple sample scripts for you. You can list the files in the current directory from within R, by calling the `list.files` function. Try it now:


	> list.files()
	[1] "bottle1.R" "bottle2.R"

To run a script, pass a string with its name to the source function. Try running the `"bottle1.R"` script:


	> source("bottle1.R")
	[1] "This be a message in a bottle1.R!"

Now try running `"bottle2.R"`:


	> source("bottle2.R")
	[1] "Will ye be me pen pal?"

## Conclusion in Chinese

这一节我们简单介绍了一下R的数字，字符，布尔值的表示方法，怎样获得帮助和打开写好的R文件。接下来两节将讲解R中最重要的数据结构：向量(vector)和矩阵(matrix)。



Chapter 2 Vectors
===========

In Chapter 2, we're gonna deal with vectors! You kown, R relies on vectors for many of its operations. This inclusdes basic plots -- I'll have you drawing graphs by the end of this chapter! 

## Vectors

A vector's values can be numbers, strings, logical values, or any other type, as long as they're all the same type. Try creating a vector of numbers, like this:

	> c(4, 7, 9)
	[1] 4 7 9


The `c` function (`c` is short for Combine) creates a new vector by combining a list of values.

Now try creating a vector with strings:


	> c('a', 'b', 'c')
	[1] "a" "b" "c"


Vectors cannot hold values with different modes (types). Try mixing modes and see what happens:

	> c(1, TRUE, "three")
	[1] "1"    "TRUE"  "three"

All the values were converted to a single mode (characters) so that the vector can hold them all.

## Sequence Vectors

If you need a vector with a sequence of numbers you can create it with `start:end` notation. Let's make a vector with values from 5 through 9:


	> 5:9
	[1]  5  6  7  8  9

A more versatile way to make sequences is to call the `seq` function. Let's do the same thing with `seq`:

	> seq(5, 9)
	[1] 5 6 7 8 9

`seq` also allows you to use increments other than 1. Try it with steps of 0.5:


	> seq(5, 9, 0.5)
	[1] 5.0 5.5 6.0 6.5 7.0 7.5 8.0 8.5 9.0

Now try making a vector with integers from 9 down to 5:

	> 9:5
	[1] 9 8 7 6 5

## Vector Access

We're going to create a vector with some strings in it for you, and store it in the `sentence` variable.

You can retrieve an individual value within a vector by providing its numeric index in square brackets. Try getting the third value:

	> sentence <- c('walk', 'the', 'plank')
	> sentence[3]
	[1] "plank"

Many languages start array indices at 0, but R's vector indices start at 1. Get the first value by typing:
	
	> sentence[1]
	[1] "walk"

You can assign new values within an existing vector. Try changing the third word to "dog":

	> sentence[3] <- "dog"

If you add new values onto the end, the vector will grow to accommodate them. Let's add a fourth word:

	> sentence[4] <- 'to'

You can use a vector within the square brackets to access multiple values. Try getting the first and third words:

	> sentence[c(1, 3)]
	[1] "walk" "dog"

This means you can retrieve ranges of values. Get the second through fourth words:

	> sentence[2:4]
	[1] "the" "dog" "to"

You can also set ranges of values; just provide the values in a vector. Add words 5 through 7:

	> sentence[5:7] <- c('the', 'poop', 'deck')

Now try accessing the sixth word of the `sentence` vector:

	> sentence[6]
	[1] "poop"


## Vector Names

For this challenge, we'll make a 3-item vector for you, and store it in the `ranks` variable.

You can assign names to a vector's elements by passing a second vector filled with names to the names assignment function, like this:


	> ranks <- 1:3
	> names(ranks) <- c("first", "second", "third")

Assigning names for a vector can act as useful labels for the data. Below, you can see what our vector looks like now.

You can also use the names to access the vector's values. Try getting the value for the "first" rank:


	> ranks
	 first second  third
     1      2      3
	> ranks["first"]
	first 
     1

Now set the current value for the "third" rank to a different value using the name rather than the position.


	> ranks["third"] <- 4
	Plotting One Vector 2.5


The barplot function draws a bar chart with a vector's values. 
We'll make a new vector for you, and store it in the vesselsSunk variable.

Now try passing the vector to the barplot function:


	> vesselsSunk <- c(4, 5, 1)
	> barplot(vesselsSunk)

If you assign names to the vector's values, R will use those names as labels on the bar plot. Let's use the names assignment function again:


	> names(vesselsSunk) <- c("England", "France", "Norway")
	
Now, if you call barplot with the vector again, you'll see the labels:


	> barplot(vesselsSunk)

Now, try calling barplot on a vector of integers ranging from 1 through 100:


	> barplot(1:100)

## Vector Math


Most arithmetic operations work just as well on vectors as they do on single values. We'll make another sample vector for you to work with, and store it in the a variable.

If you add a scalar (a single value) to a vector, the scalar will be added to each value in the vector, returning a new vector with the results. Try adding 1 to each element in our vector:


	> a <- c(1, 2, 3)
	> a + 1
	[1] 2 3 4

The same is true of division, multiplication, or any other basic arithmetic. Try dividing our vector by 2:


	> a / 2
	[1] 0.5 1.0 1.5

Now try multiplying our vector by 2:


	> a * 2
	[1] 2 4 6

If you add two vectors, R will take each value from each vector and add them. We'll make a second vector for you to experiment with, and store it in the b variable.

Try adding it to the a vector:


	> b <- c(4, 5, 6)
	> a + b
	[1] 5 7 9

Now try subtracting b from a:


	> a - b
	[1] -3 -3 -3

You can also take two vectors and compare each item. See which values in the a vector are equal to those in a second vector:


	> a == c(1, 99, 3)
	[1]  TRUE FALSE  TRUE

Notice that R didn't test whether the whole vectors were equal; it checked each value in the a vector against the value at the same index in our new vector.

Check if each value in the a vector is less than the corresponding value in another vector:


	> a < c(1, 99, 3)
	[1] FALSE  TRUE FALSE

Functions that normally work with scalars can operate on each element of a vector, too. Try getting the sine of each value in our vector:


	> sin(a)
	[1] 0.8414710 0.9092974 0.1411200

Now try getting the square roots with sqrt:


	> sqrt(a)
	[1] 1.000000 1.414214 1.732051

## Scatter Plots

The plot function takes two vectors, one for X values and one for Y values, and draws a graph of them.

Let's draw a graph showing the relationship of numbers and their sines.

First, we'll need some sample data. We'll create a vector for you with some fractional values between 0 and 20, and store it in the x variable.

Now, try creating a second vector with the sines of those values:


	> x <- seq(1, 20, 0.1)
	> y <- sin(x)

Then simply call plot with your two vectors:


	> plot(x, y)

Great job! Notice on the graph that values from the first argument (x) are used for the horizontal axis, and values from the second (y) for the vertical.

Your turn. We'll create a vector with some negative and positive values for you, and store it in the values variable.

We'll also create a second vector with the absolute values of the first, and store it in the absolutes variable.

Try plotting the vectors, with values on the horizontal axis, and absolutes on the vertical axis.


	> values <- -10:10
	> absolutes <- abs(values)
	> plot(values, absolutes)

## NA Values

Sometimes, when working with sample data, a given value isn't available. But it's not a good idea to just throw those values out. R has a value that explicitly indicates a sample was not available: NA. Many functions that work with vectors treat this value specially.

We'll create a vector for you with a missing sample, and store it in the a variable.

Try to get the sum of its values, and see what the result is:


	> a <- c(1, 3, NA, 7, 9)
	> sum(a)

	[1] NA

The sum is considered "not available" by default because one of the vector's values was NA. This is the responsible thing to do; R won't just blithely add up the numbers without warning you about the incomplete data. We can explicitly tell sum (and many other functions) to remove NA values before they do their calculations, however.

Remember that command to bring up help for a function? Bring up documentation for the sum function:


	> help(sum)
	sum                    package:base                    R 
	Documentation

	Sum of Vector Elements

	Description:
    	'sum' returns the sum of all the values present in its arguments.

	Usage:
    	sum(..., na.rm = FALSE)
	...

As you see in the documentation, sum can take an optional named argument, na.rm. It's set to FALSE by default, but if you set it to TRUE, all NA arguments will be removed from the vector before the calculation is performed.

Try calling sum again, with na.rm set to TRUE:


	> sum(a, na.rm = TRUE)
	[1] 20

## Conclusion in Chinese

本章讲了R中两个最重要的数据结构之一：向量。
有两种方式创造一个向量：`c('a','b','c')`和`seq(1,10,0.5)`; 前者既可以是数字也可以是字符，只要同一类型的就行，后者只能是序列数字，若间距为1的话可以直接简化为`1:10`。
将向量付给一个变量`a`后，可以用`a[3]`查看和修改向量`a`中的第3个元素，可以用`names(a)`查看和修改a中各元素的名字。
`barplot(a)`可以画出`a`的柱状图以及各值对应的名字，散点图例子：`x <- seq(1,20,0.1)`; `y <- sin(x)`; `plot(x,y)`

Matrices
=============

So far we've only worked with vectors, which are simple lists of values. What if you need data in rows and columns? Matrices are here to help.

A matrix is just a fancy term for a 2-dimensional array. In this chapter, we'll show you all the basics of working with matrices, from creating them, to accessing them, to plotting them.

## Matrices

Let's make a matrix 3 rows high by 4 columns wide, with all its fields set to 0.


	> matrix(0, 3, 4)
	      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4]
	[1,]    0    0    0    0
	[2,]    0    0    0    0
	[3,]    0    0    0    0

You can also use a vector to initialize a matrix's value. To fill a 3x4 matrix, you'll need a 12-item vector. We'll make that for you now:


	> a <- 1:12
	
If we print the value of a, we'll see the vector's values, all in a single row:


	> print(a)
	  [1]  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12

Now call matrix with the vector, the number of rows, and the number of columns:


	> matrix(a, 3, 4)
	      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4]
	[1,]    1    4    7   10
	[2,]    2    5    8   11
	[3,]    3    6    9   12

The vector's values are copied into the new matrix, one by one. You can also re-shape the vector itself into a matrix. Create an 8-item vector:


	> plank <- 1:8
	
The dim assignment function sets dimensions for a matrix. It accepts a vector with the number of rows and the number of columns to assign.

Assign new dimensions to plank by passing a vector specifying 2 rows and 4 columns (c(2, 4)):


	> dim(plank) <- c(2, 4)

If you print plank now, you'll see that the values have shifted to form 2 rows by 4 columns:


	> print(plank)
	      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4]
	[1,]    1    3    5    7
	[2,]    2    4    6    8

The vector is no longer one-dimensional. It has been converted, in-place, to a matrix.

Now, use the matrix function to make a 5x5 matrix, with its fields initialized to any values you like.


	> matrix(1, 5, 5)
	     [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4] [,5]
	[1,]    1    1    1    1    1
	[2,]    1    1    1    1    1
	[3,]    1    1    1    1    1
	[4,]    1    1    1    1    1
	[5,]    1    1    1    1    1

## Matrix Access

Getting values from matrices isn't that different from vectors; you just have to provide two indices instead of one.

Let's take another look at our plank matrix:


	> print(plank)
	      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4]
	[1,]    1    3    5    7
	[2,]    2    4    6    8

Try getting the value from the second row in the third column of plank:


	> plank[2, 3]
	[1] 6

Now, try getting the value from first row of the fourth column:


	> plank[1, 4]
	[1] 7

As with vectors, to set a single value, just assign to it. Set the previous value to 0:


	> plank[1, 4] <- 0
	
You can get an entire row of the matrix by omitting the column index (but keep the comma). Try retrieving the second row:


	> plank[2,]
	[1] 2 4 0 8

To get an entire column, omit the row index. Retrieve the fourth column:


	> plank[, 4]
	[1] 7 8

You can read multiple rows or columns by providing a vector or sequence with their indices. Try retrieving columns 2 through 4:


	> plank[, 2:4]
	      [,1] [,2] [,3]
	[1,]    3    5    7
	[2,]    4    0    8

## Matrix Plotting

Text output is only useful when matrices are small. When working with more complex data, you'll need something better. Fortunately, R includes powerful visualizations for matrix data.

We'll start simple, with an elevation map of a sandy beach.

It's pretty flat - everything is 1 meter above sea level. We'll create a 10 by 10 matrix with all its values initialized to 1 for you:


	> elevation <- matrix(1, 10, 10)
	
Oh, wait, we forgot the spot where we dug down to sea level to retrieve a treasure chest. At the fourth row, sixth column, set the elevation to 0:


	> elevation[4, 6] <- 0
	
You can now do a contour map of the values simply by passing the matrix to the contour function:


	> contour(elevation)
	
Or you can create a 3D perspective plot with the persp function:


	> persp(elevation)
	
The perspective plot looks a little odd, though. This is because persp automatically expands the view so that your highest value (the beach surface) is at the very top.

We can fix that by specifying our own value for the expand parameter.


	> persp(elevation, expand=0.2)

Okay, those examples are a little simplistic. Thankfully, R includes some sample data sets to play around with. One of these is volcano, a 3D map of a dormant New Zealand volcano.

It's simply an 87x61 matrix with elevation values, but it shows the power of R's matrix visualizations.

Try creating a contour map of the volcano matrix:

	> contour(volcano)
	
Try a perspective plot (limit the vertical expansion to one-fifth again):


	> persp(volcano, expand=0.2)

The image function will create a heat map:

	> image(volcano)


## Conclusion in Chinese

这章其实就讲了一个函数：`matrix(a, 3, 4)`, `a`是事先定义好的一个数组向量或单个数字，用来填充这个3x4向量。把这个向量附值到m，则可以用`m[1,2]`查看或修改第1行第2列的元素，可以用`dim(m)`查看或修改这个矩阵的维数。
接下来我们根据矩阵画了几个不同的图：
`contour(a)`; `persp(a)`; `persp(a, expand=0.2)`; `contour(volcano)`; `persp(volcano, expand=0.2)`; `image(volcano)`大家可以让电脑出图感受一下。

Summary Statistics
==============

## Mean

Determining the health of the crew is an important part of any inventory of the ship. Here's a vector containing the number of limbs each member has left, along with their names.

	limbs <- c(4, 3, 4, 3, 2, 4, 4, 4)
	names(limbs) <- c('One-Eye', 'Peg-Leg', 'Smitty', 'Hook', 
	'Scooter', 'Dan', 'Mikey', 'Blackbeard')

A quick way to assess our battle-readiness would be to get the average of the crew's appendage counts. Statisticians call this the "mean". Call the mean function with the limbs vector.


	> mean(limbs)
	[1] 3.5

An average closer to 4 would be nice, but this will have to do.

Here's a barplot of that vector:


	> barplot(limbs)

If we draw a line on the plot representing the mean, we can easily compare the various values to the average. The abline function can take an h parameter with a value at which to draw a horizontal line, or a v parameter for a vertical line. When it's called, it updates the previous plot.

Draw a horizontal line across the plot at the mean:

	> abline(h = mean(limbs))

## Median

Let's say we gain a crew member that completely skews the mean.

	> limbs <- c(4, 3, 4, 3, 2, 4, 4, 14)
	> names(limbs) <- c('One-Eye', 'Peg-Leg', 'Smitty', 'Hook', 
	                    'Scooter', 'Dan', 'Mikey', 'Davy Jones')
	> mean(limbs)
	[1] 4.75

Let's see how this new mean shows up on our same graph.

	> barplot(limbs)
	> abline(h = mean(limbs))

It may be factually accurate to say that our crew has an average of 4.75 limbs, but it's probably also misleading.

For situations like this, it's probably more useful to talk about the "median" value. The median is calculated by sorting the values and choosing the middle one (for sets with an even number of values, the middle two values are averaged).

Call the median function on the vector:

	> median(limbs)
	[1] 4

That's more like it. Let's show the median on the plot. Draw a horizontal line across the plot at the median.

	> abline(h = median(limbs))
	
## Standard Deviation

Some of the plunder from our recent raids has been worth less than what we're used to. Here's a vector with the values of our latest hauls:

	> pounds <- c(45000, 50000, 35000, 40000, 35000, 45000, 10000, 15000)
	> barplot(pounds)
	> meanValue <- mean(pounds)

et's see a plot showing the mean value:

	> abline(h = meanValue)
	
These results seem way below normal. The crew wants to make Smitty, who picked the last couple ships to waylay, walk the plank. But as he dangles over the water, wily Smitty raises a question: what, exactly, is a "normal" haul?

Statisticians use the concept of "standard deviation" from the mean to describe the range of typical values for a data set. For a group of numbers, it shows how much they typically vary from the average value. To calculate the standard deviation, you calculate the mean of the values, then subtract the mean from each number and square the result, then average those squares, and take the square root of that average.

If that sounds like a lot of work, don't worry. You're using R, and all you have to do is pass a vector to the sd function. Try calling sd on the pounds vector now, and assign the result to the deviation variable:

	> deviation <- sd(pounds)
	> deviation
	[1] 14500.62

We'll add a line on the plot to show one standard deviation above the mean (the top of the normal range)...

	> abline(h = meanValue + deviation)

Hail to the sailor that brought us that 50,000-pound payday!

Now try adding a line on the plot to show one standard devation below the mean (the bottom of the normal range):


	> abline(h = meanValue - deviation)

We're risking being hanged by the Spanish for this? Sorry, Smitty, you're shark bait.

## Conclusion in Chinese

这章就更简单了，介绍了3个数据统计的函数: `mean(a)`，`median(a)`，`sd(a)`，分别对应数据a的平均值，中间值，标准差。用`barplot(a)`画完柱状图后可以用`abline(h = mean(a))`在上面加上平均值的线。
w
Factors
===========






