---
layout: post
author: liuxin
title: What are some good projects in Finite Element Analysis
date: 2017-02-12
category: comsol
tags: 基础知识
---

The answers to "What are some good projects in Finite Element Analysis"

### Nathan Rhoades:
Ahh. I used COMSOL in my thesis. I **modeled, tested and manufactured** a **micro fluidic temperature and flow sensor** from a small block of high PTC material... kind of like a distributed hot-wire anemometer.
COMSOL is great for **iterative multi-variable solutions**. For example, for my research, I wrote an **FDM** program by hand (in **Python**) to solve the **thermodynamic problem** of what the temperature is of a pipe is axially as fluid flows through it. Simple.
Then I wrote a separate FDM to figure out the heat generated if the pipe was made of **a material with resistance proportional to temperature**, and assuming the inside of the pipe was connected to ground and the outside of the pipe was connected to a fixed voltage. Simple as well.
Then I tried to **iterate between the two FDM's to find the solution for the temperature of the pipe in the axial direction given a voltage bias**. The solution instantly produced spurs and blew up. More or less I eventually discovered that iterative multi-variable analysis requires a lot of numerical method wizardry.
COMSOL is great at this.

总结：作者用Python写了两个差分方程的程序(刚开始我还以为是3D打印的FDM。。)，一个计算当水在管中流动时管的轴线温度，另一个计算加了电压之后，一种电阻和温度成正比的材料做成的管子的产热。最后用comsol迭代计算在给定电压时管中轴线的温度。
感悟：Python还是要学的啊。。大神都说了：python is an ideal language for Abaqus。

### Shankar:
Design **optimization problems** are the best, and are of real use.
Optimize the design of anything - a **HV feedthrough**, a **relay**, a **Rogowsky coil**.. there is no end to it.
Simulate the structures in the FEM based code, and depending on some attributes of it, use **Genetic Algorithm** or **Simulated Annealing** to optimize the physical design.
NB: If it is not mandatory to work with COMSOL, there is a simpler 2D FEM tool to start with, called FEMM. It is an open-source tool, quite helpful and easy to learn.

总结：作者说优化问题是最实用的。先用FEM代码仿真模拟结构，然后根据它的属性，用遗传算法或者模拟退火来最优化物理设计。（咦？怎么好像回到了数学建模竞赛。。）

### Ashish Jadaun
COMSOL has specialized modules for particular type of problems and the learning curve is quite steep compared to other FEM software. There are a number of tutorials (step by step) which can help you for your specific type of problem. Although I am from a mechanical background,  I have seen lots of people working with AC/DC module in all the frequency ranges. You can pick any of the tutorial, modify the problem here and there (complicate it a bit) and you have your project.

总结：呃。。