---
layout: post
title: MNS 331 Study Questions
date: 2016-10-22
category: bio
duoshuo: true
twitter_text: "MNS 331 的练习题目"
introduction: "MNS 331 的练习题目"
---

Chapter 1
==============================================================================

#### Define the term biocompatibility.

#### What is meant by the statement Do no harm to your patient? How does this fundamental relate to biomaterials development?

Chapter 2
==============================================================================

#### Name three important characteristics of extracellular matrix molecules.

#### What is the timeframe at which the three phases of cutaneous wound healing occur relative to the time of the injury?

#### Name four properties of biomaterials that can be modified to influence wound healing?

#### Identify three requirements for a successful tissue-engineered construct.

Chapter 3
==============================================================================

#### What is the primary difference between woven and lamellar bone? What are the two types of lamellar bone and how do they differ?

#### What determines the type of ossification that will take place during fracture healing? What is a critical sized defect?

#### What is the role of BMPs in bone healing and in de novo bone generation?

#### When it comes to treating a bone injury, what properties should a scaffold possess to meet the biological requirements of osseous tissue?

Chapter 4
==============================================================================

#### In a multicellular organism, what is the advantage of embedding cells in a fibrous matrix rather than suspending them in fluids?

#### What is the advantage of having a fibrous cytoskeletal network in the cytoplasm rather than a simple solution of biomolecules?

#### Explain why some cells become increasingly sensitive to mechanical signals after initial mechanical stimulation.

#### Simple injections of stem cells into diseased heart tissues provide little benefit, while embedding the cells in soft polymers before delivery gives more promising results. Speculate why.

#### What is durotaxis? Why does inhibition of actin-myosin contractile forces causes inhibition of durotaxis?

Chapter 5
==============================================================================

#### What properties of biomaterials affect protein adsorption? What strategies attempt to minimize protein adsorption when implanted into a corporeal environment? Why attempt to minimize protein adsorption?

#### Why is there a significant focus in tissue engineering on the RGD peptide sequence? Despite its popularity, why might RGD not be the best choice as a surface-modifier to enhance cell-biomaterial interactions?

#### What is cell phenotype? How does it relate to cell differentiation? Contrast what is meant by functional, morphological, and molecular biological phenotype. Provide gross functional phenotype comparisons for a neural cell, a cardiomyocyte, and an osteoblast.

#### What are the effects of shear and mechanical stimuli on cell-material interactions?

Chapter 6
==============================================================================

#### What is the Foreign Body Response (FBR) and how does it affect the would healing process and macrophages? Provide three characteristic macrophage cellular differentiation phases observed in vivo during the FBR to implanted biomaterials?

#### What specific physical properties of nanoparticles greatly affect their phagocytosis efficiency by macrophages?  What is the host response to micro and nanoparticles.  How can polymer coatings change this response?

#### What is considered the primary underlying cause of failure and retraction of many joint replacements?

#### Describe 3 advantages of using electrospun fibers as biomaterials? (many answers are correct)



Chapter 7
==============================================================================

#### When a biomaterial contacts the blood stream, proteins will adsorb on its surface. The surface will be quickly covered by proteins. Does the composition of the protein mixture change over time? Explain your answer.


#### When properly designed, polyethylene glycol conjugated (a.k.a. PEGylated) drugs usually circulate longer in the blood stream, explain why?


#### What are some applications for protein adsorption in tissue engineering and drug delivery?


#### What is the primary, secondary, and tertiary structure of a protein? Proteins in their native 3D structure have both covalent and non-covalent interactions, which one is stronger? In protein folding from primary to tertiary, do covalent or non-covalent interactions determine the final 3D structure? Explain your answer, i.e. why would the stronger (or weaker) interactions determine the folding of a protein.

Chapter 8
==============================================================================

#### Describe the usefulness and limitations of the in vitro testing of biomaterials as compared to in vivo testing.

#### Explain why standardization is needed for in vitro testing of biomaterials.

#### Describe "exposure dose" and "delivered dose" and provide differences in outcomes of in vitro and in vivo testing regarding the dose of agent(s).

#### Define mutagen/carcinogen and describe how to test the mutagenic toxicity of biomaterials.

#### Describe the in vitro cytotoxicity assays of biomaterials based on metabolic activity.

#### Define nanobiomaterials and provide some examples of nanobiomaterials that can be used in biomedical applications.  Describe potential risk factors involving nanobiomaterials.



Chapter 9
==============================================================================

#### Describe the limitations of in vitro assessment of a biomaterial.

#### Define critical sized bone defects.

#### Why is there a potential regulatory challenge when biomaterials-biological therapies are designed and developed for clinical applications?

#### Under a 510(k) pathway to the clinical market, what are the classifications of devices and which classifications maybe relevant to biomaterials?

#### What is the significance of a PMA?

#### What is the description and the importance for a Phase III clinical trial?

Chapter 11
==============================================================================

#### What is a medical device? What is an investigational medical device?

#### What is a premarket approval (PMA) application for a medical device?

#### What are the three classes of biomaterial and how are biomaterials evaluated prior to their use in humans?


Bioreactors
==============================================================================

#### Discuss the four important aspects involded in establishing a tissue culture for seeding a biomaterial scaffold used in a bioreactor?

#### Describe three types of bioreactor used for cell culture.  Provide an advantage and disadvantage of each type of bioreactor.

#### What are the challenges of scaling up culture systems and bioreactors used for tissue engineering?

